>> Mike North: So looking at the code, the
first thing that we're going to need to do
is, we could either look to the place
where I've told you you could find your
vapid keys, which is in the private
folder, at this vapid.json file.
Or you could import this
as a JavaScript module, and
that's actually how we're
going to go about doing this.
So we typically wanna ask for
permissions to send the users
push messages at around the same place
we're registering the service worker.
In this case, it's in app.jsx.
We can import the the VAPID
keys just like this.
>> Mike North: So you can import JSON
files just like you can import JavaScript
files.
So now that object has on it
the private and public key.
>> Mike North: And we can then,
the next thing we need is this
function that I handed you for
free, no charge.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Mike North: The one that converts
the base 64 string into an integer array.
>> Mike North: Let me just
find that real quick.
>> Mike North: There we go.
>> Mike North: So
we're gonna add that down here, or no,
I think index.js is where we're
doing our service order stuff.
There we go, perfect.
So we'll add that function here.
We can get rid of this VAPID import,
and put it here.
>> Mike North: We've already got one.
And now, we have to kinda deal with
our service worker registration here.
So we've got it here,
it's been unused this whole time, and
now we can finally do something with it.
So we're gonna say return
registration.pushManager.subscribe, and
we'll pass in subscribeOptions, then
we'll flesh that object out in a moment.
Just put it up here for the time being,
let subscribeOptions = empty object,
and this thing returns a promise-
>> Mike North: Which
resolves to a pushSubscription.
>> Mike North: And what we wanna do with
that subscription is send it to our API.
So we're gonna return a fetch
to the API end point that we
have in the example here.
>> Mike North: This is gonna be a post,
and
we need to pass our JSON content
type header along with it.
>> Mike North: Okay, and so now this
fetch should succeed, we need the body,
of course.
>> Mike North: And
we don't need to wrap this object in
that data key as with the other requests.
This one,
we can just pass straight through.
And once this fetch is complete,
we should be good to go.
So let's see if this works.
We're going to stop our API and
restart it.
>> Mike North: And we should see, when our
UI starts, a new record being created.
>> Mike North: Let's see
what's going on here.
>> Mike North: Interesting.
>> Mike North: I don't think
I touched that kind of file.
Let's see.
Do not touch a CSS file.
>> Mike North: Let me just try
cleaning my build and starting over.
>> Mike North: Let's just
look at this real carefully.
It's a semicolon.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Mike North: Good old webpack,
that is not useful feedback.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Mike North: Sorry, Sean.
So now, we should,
when the new service worker takes control,
let me make sure that I've got my
notification permissions turned off.
Cuz last night,
I was going through this, and it
probably still held the old state here.
Let's see,
we're not using this URL to base 64 array.
Let me make sure I use that properly,
we need our subscribe options,
that's the last thing.
So here, user visible only, true, and
then we've got application server key and
the value of that is the url to bay 64.
>> Mike North: Array, and
we're gonna pass in VAPID.publicKey.
>> Mike North: There we go,
it is asking us, do we have
permission to give you notifications?
So I'm just gonna clear this out here.
>> Mike North: Clear, allow, okay, and
we just persisted this thing here.
So we've now got a course subscription.
What I'm gonna do with that is
I just wanna save it for later.
I'm ready to open up another text editor
just, or I can just do another tab.
>> Mike North: Because I want
some of those values there for
manually sending a message.
And I'm gonna go to my service worker
now and implement a push handler.
>> Mike North: Do it right above fetch.
>> Mike North: addEventListener, push,
and that's gonna receive an event.
That's a push event,
it's a little bit different.
And for now-
>> Mike North: We'll grab the data
property off of it.
>> Mike North: And
we're just gonna console.log(data.text).
>> Mike North: We'll see what happens.
So in our service worker tools here-
>> Mike North: In
the application tab, we've got a button
that we haven't really been pressing,
and it is the push button, so
this emulates a push event.
So I should be able to
hit this three times.
Go to My Console, and you can see
three times I got this message.
So that's a great way of simulating that
things are working the way
that you expect them to work.
Now, let's make something
here that's like textData =
data.text if text data
equals terminate, we'll add our
service worker kill switch here.
They don't really care about the promise.
We're not really waiting for anything.
We're just saying go away, service worker.
>> Mike North: All right, so
now, I'm just gonna keep this
application tab open so
we can see what's going on.
And I'm gonna carefully build that little
command that we were looking at before.
So here, well, let's just start with
the cheat sheet, here's my command.
And the first thing I need is an endpoint,
and
that's part of this push
subscription object, here it is.
>> Mike North: Grab the whole thing.
>> Mike North: So there's the endpoint.
>> Mike North: And
then we need a key and an auth.
So this is generally the key, and
this describes an elliptical curve
encryption key generation algorithm here.
It's just, if you're used to JSON Web
Tokens, maybe you've seen that before.
And then we get the auth value.
And there's our payload, we'll leave
that alone, we'll leave this alone, and
then we'll just need the VAPID stuff.
Grab that here.
There's the public key.
>> Mike North: And the private one.
And by the time you watch this video,
this will be a useless key,
before you try to get fresh
with my push notifications.
>> Mike North: So we should be able to
run this command, and what I expect,
if you look carefully, on the right side,
I expect all of those links there to go
grayed out, indicating that
the service worker is unregistered.
So let's run it here.
>> Mike North: What went wrong?
I need to change one little thing here,
mail two, and then it should work.
Needs to be a url, a mail two url,
there we go, they just grayed out.
I have programatically
killed my service worker.
This is something you could do,
remotely you could do it for
all of your users if you
have a widespread problem,
kick yourself out of progressive
web mode and fall back.
So, a very useful tool to use.
And with that, I wanna push this up,
and then Steve is gonna take over and
start talking about how we can
take what we’ve built here and
kind of use it to show users notifications
even when our browser tab isn't open.
>> Speaker 2: One question.
>> Mike North: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: In the registration process,
you sent an EPI to the 3100
EPI subscription or
whatever push subscription.
What was that for?
>> Mike North: So
If we think about the flow again,
the-
>> Mike North: Our back end,
like we need to store these subscriptions.
Those subscriptions are means of directing
a piece of data to a particular user.
Think of it like a GUID or
an IMEI if you're used to mobile devices.
That represents a particular browser
on a particular user's machine, and
without that, we have no way of routing
that message to the correct place.
So we just persisted it in our database.
You might have in your data structures,
you could have a user account has
many push credentials and one might be
their Firefox, one would be their Chrome.
And you could iterate over all of them and
send a message simultaneously to whatever.
So your back end needs that
is the important thing.
The front end requests it.
But once it has it,
you've got to send it to some server so
that the server can use it to
push something to the client.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, but in this scenario,
the back end was not sending actually any
push event to the push service.
Rather, we use,
we did that from command line.
>> Mike North: Correct.
So.
>> Speaker 2: To notify ourselves.
>> Mike North: Without spoiling too much,
let me do something else here.
I'm gonna set a quick little break point.
And we've got a push listener here.
I'm gonna just set one there,
and I'm gonna check out.
>> Mike North: Come on now.
>> Mike North: Check out.
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Mike North: So, you should see
notifications coming through.
>> Mike North: Right,
am I in do not disturb again?
God damn it.
>> Mike North: One last little hack,
only cuz Steve will need this for
the next section,
I wanna make sure that it works.
>> Mike North: Unserve.
>> Mike North: That would be the problem.
I had two of these running.
>> Mike North: Check out, yes.
>> Mike North: I'm not sure why
this break point's not been hit.
Is it possible that, yeah,
I changed the service for a code.
And it wasn't stopping there.
>> Mike North: Let me kill
the service worker, restart it,
make sure that it works.
>> Mike North: Clear this.
>> Mike North: Check out, yes.
>> Mike North: It doesn't
seem to be working.
>> Mike North: So the idea is we should
be able to send these notifications.
I think I can just take away
the VAPID stuff and it should work.
There, that will do it.
>> Mike North: Now it
will definitely work,
I wasn't using the VAPID
key on the server side.
I must have pulled down
my own changes there.
So now checkout, yes.
>> Mike North: There we go.
So now we've got this data.
Here's the push message data.
This originated from our API as
a result of checking out, and
it is using the exact same library,
just not the CLI utility for
it, but same core mechanism.